Nomad Docs: Move load balancer content from tutorials to nomad docs (#1523)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/networking/load-balancer/nginx.mdx

reference](/consul/docs/reference/consul-template/go) for syntax details. Consul
notifies NGINX immediately when a change in the health of one of the service
endpoints occurs. NGINX then re-renders a new load balancer configuration file
that only includes healthy service instances.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="nginx.nomad.hcl" highlight="9,32-47">

```hcl
job "nginx" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "nginx" {
    count = 1

    network {
      port "http" {
        static = 8080
      }
    }

    service {
      name = "nginx"
      port = "http"
    }

    task "nginx" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "nginx"

        ports = ["http"]

        volumes = [
          "local:/etc/nginx/conf.d",
        ]
      }

      template {
        data = <<EOF
upstream backend {
{{ range service "demo-webapp" }}
  server {{ .Address }}:{{ .Port }};
{{ else }}server 127.0.0.1:65535; # force a 502
{{ end }}
}

server {
   listen 8080;

   location / {
      proxy_pass http://backend;
   }
}
EOF

        destination   = "local/load-balancer.conf"
        change_mode   = "signal"
        change_signal = "SIGHUP"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

> Although the job specification contains an inline template for HAProxy

Author: ```suggestion
Although the job specification contains an inline template for NGINX
```

==> Evaluation "45da5a89" finished with status "complete"
```

### Verify load balancer configuration

Follow these steps to verify NGINX configuration.

1. Run the [`nomad status nginx` command](/nomad/commands/status) to get the
   allocation ID of your NGINX deployment.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad status nginx
     ID            = nginx
     Name          = nginx
     ...
     Summary
     Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
     nginx       0       0         1        0       0         0

     Allocations
     ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status   Created    Modified
     76692834  f5fdf017  nginx       0        run      running  17m40s ago  17m25s ago
  ```

1. Run the [`nomad alloc fs` command](/nomad/commands/alloc/fs) to read the configuration.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad alloc fs 766 nginx/local/load-balancer.conf
     upstream backend {
       server 172.31.48.118:21354;
       server 172.31.52.52:25958;
       server 172.31.52.7:29728;
     }
     server {
       listen 80;
       location / {
        proxy_pass http://backend;
      }
    }
   ```

## Make a request to the load balancer

> If you access the NGINX load balancer, you should be able to see a response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you access the NGINX load balancer, you should receive a response
```

```shell-session
$ curl nginx.service.consul:8080
Welcome! You are on node 172.31.48.118:21354
```

Note that NGINX forwarded your request to one of the deployed instances of the
demo web application, which is spread across three Nomad clients. The output
shows the IP address of the demo web application host. If you repeat your
requests, the IP address changes based on which backend web server instance
received the request.

## Place Nomad client nodes behind a cloud provider load balancer

Your Nomad client nodes may change over time, so it is
important to provide your end users with a single endpoint to access your
services. You may do this by placing your Nomad client nodes behind a cloud
provider's load balancer, such as [AWS Elastic Load Balancing
(ELB)](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/), [Azure Load Balancer](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/load-balancer),
or [Google Cloud Load Balancing](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing).

The basic steps involve creating a load balancer, registering Nomad client nodes
behind the load balancer, creating listeners, and configuring health checks. For

> this guide, be sure to create ingress route for NGINX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behind the load balancer, creating listeners, and configuring health checks. If
you followed this guide, be sure to create ingress route for NGINX.
```
